


Network Working Group                                        L. Masinter
Internet-Draft                                                     Adobe
Obsoletes: 2388 (if approved)                         September 15, 2013
Intended status: Standards Track
Expires: March 17, 2014

            Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data
                 draft-masinter-multipart-form-data-00

Abstract

   This specification defines an Internet Media Type, multipart/form-
   data, which can be used by a wide variety of applications and
   transported by a wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a
   set of values as the result of a user filling out a form.  It
   replaces RFC 2388.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on March 17, 2014.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Definition of multipart/form-data
   3.  Use of multipart/form-data
     3.1.  Boundary
     3.2.  Sets of files
     3.3.  Encoding
     3.4.  Other attributes
     3.5.  Charset of text in form data
   4.  Operability considerations
     4.1.  Compression, encryption
     4.2.  Non-ASCII field names and values
     4.3.  Ordered fields and duplicated field names
     4.4.  Interoperability with web applications
     4.5.  Correlating form data with the original form
   5.  Security Considerations
   6.  Media type registration for multipart/form-data
   7.  References
     7.1.  Normative References
     7.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A. Changes from RFC
   Appendix B. Alternatives
     Appendix B.1.  Other data encodings rather than multipart
     Appendix B.2.  Remote files with third-party transfer
   Author's Address




Network Working Group                                        L. Masinter
Internet-Draft                                                     Adobe
Obsoletes: 2388 (if approved)                         September 15, 2013
Intended status: Standards Track
Expires: March 17, 2014

            Returning Values from Forms: multipart/form-data
                 draft-masinter-multipart-form-data-00

Abstract

   This specification defines an Internet Media Type, multipart/form-
   data, which can be used by a wide variety of applications and
   transported by a wide variety of protocols as a way of returning a
   set of values as the result of a user filling out a form.  It
   replaces RFC 2388.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on March 17, 2014.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Simplified BSD License text
   as described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

1.  Introduction

   In many applications, it is possible for a user to be presented with
   a form.  The user will fill out the form, including information that
   is typed, generated by user input, or included from files that the
   user has selected.  When the form is filled out, the data from the
   form is sent from the user to the receiving application.

   The definition of multipart/form-data is derived from one of those
   applications, originally set out in [RFC1867] and subsequently
   incorporated into [HTML3.2] and [HTML4.0], where forms are expressed
   in HTML, and in which the form values are sent via HTTP or electronic
   mail.  This representation is widely implemented in numerous web
   browsers and web servers.

   However, multipart/form-data can be used for forms that are presented
   using representations other than HTML (spreadsheets, Portable
   Document Format, etc), and for transport using other means than
   electronic mail or HTTP. This document defines the representation of
   form values independently of the application for which it is used.

2.  Definition of multipart/form-data

   The media-type multipart/form-data follows the rules of all multipart
   MIME data streams as outlined in [RFC2046].  In forms, there are a
   series of fields to be supplied by the user who fills out the form.
   Each field has a name.  Within a given form, the names are unique.

   "multipart/form-data" contains a series of parts.  Each part MUST
   contain a content-disposition header [RFC2183] where the disposition
   type is "form-data", and where the disposition contains an
   (additional) parameter of "name", where the value of that parameter
   is the original field name in the form.  For example, a part might
   contain a header:

        Content-Disposition: form-data; name="user"

   with the value corresponding to the entry of the "user" field.

   As with all multipart MIME types, each part has an optional "Content-
   Type", which defaults to "text/plain".  If the contents of a file are
   returned via filling out a form, then the file input is identified as
   the appropriate media type, if known, or "application/octet-stream".
   The inclusion of multiple files returned for a single file input
   result in multiple parts, one for each file, with the same name.

   Each part may be encoded and the "content-transfer-encoding" header
   supplied if the value of that part does not conform to the default
   encoding.

3.  Use of multipart/form-data

3.1.  Boundary

   As with other multipart types, a boundary is selected that does not
   occur in any of the data.  Each field of the form is sent, in the
   order defined by the sending appliction and form, as a part of the
   multipart stream.  Each part identifies the INPUT name within the
   original form.  Each part should be labelled with an appropriate
   content-type if the media type is known (e.g., inferred from the file
   extension or operating system typing information) or as "application/
   octet-stream".

3.2.  Sets of files

   If the value of a form field is a set of files rather than a single
   file, that value can be transferred together using the "multipart/
   mixed" format.

3.3.  Encoding

   While the HTTP protocol can transport arbitrary binary data, the
   default for mail transport is the 7BIT encoding.  The value supplied
   for a part may need to be encoded and the "content-transfer-encoding"
   header supplied if the value does not conform to the default
   encoding.  [See section 5 of [RFC2046] for more details.]

3.4.  Other attributes

   Forms may request file inputs from the user; the form software may
   include the file name and other file attributes, as specified in
   [RFC2184].

   The original local file name may be supplied as well, either as a
   "filename" parameter either of the "content-disposition: form-data"
   header or, in the case of multiple files, in a "content-disposition:
   file" header of the subpart.  The sending application MAY supply a
   file name; if the file name of the sender's operating system is not
   in US-ASCII, the file name might be approximated, or encoded using
   the method of [RFC2231].

   This is a convenience for those cases where the files supplied by the
   form might contain references to each other, e.g., a TeX file and its
   .sty auxiliary style description.

3.5.  Charset of text in form data

   HTML forms have the convention that the value of a form entry with
   entry name "_charset_" and type "hidden" is automatically replaced
   with the name of the character set used for encoding.

   Each part of a multipart/form-data is supposed to have a content-
   type.  In the case where a field element is text, the charset
   parameter for the text indicates the character encoding used.

   For example, a form with a text field in which a user typed 'Joe owes
   <eu>100' where <eu> is the Euro symbol might have form data returned
   as:

      --AaB03x
      content-disposition: form-data; name="field1"
      content-type: text/plain;charset=windows-1250
      content-transfer-encoding: quoted-printable
      Joe owes =80100.
      --AaB03x

4.  Operability considerations

4.1.  Compression, encryption

   Some of the data in forms may be compressed or encrypted, using other
   MIME mechanisms.  This is a function of the application that is
   generating the form-data.

4.2.  Non-ASCII field names and values

   Ordinarily MIME headers are generally required to consist only of 7-
   bit data in the US-ASCII character set.  While [RFC2388] suggested
   that non-ASCII field names should be encoded according to the method
   in [RFC2047] if they contain characters outside of US-ASCII, practice
   varies widely.

   Those creating forms SHOULD avoid non-ASCII field names, for
   interoperability reasons.  Field names are generally not visible and
   should not be translated.

   When encoding the result of filling a form, the results may be
   expected differently according to the encoding used in the original
   form.

4.3.  Ordered fields and duplicated field names

   The relationship of the ordering of fields within a form and the
   ordering of returned values within "multipart/form-data" was not
   defined by [RFC2388], nor was the handling of the case where a form
   has multiple fields with the same name.  Form processors given forms
   with a well-defined ordering SHOULD send back results in the order
   received and preserve duplicate field names, in order.
   Intermediaries MUST NOT reorder the results.(Note that there are some
   forms which do not define a natural order of appearance.

4.4.  Interoperability with web applications

   Many web applications use the "application/x-url-encoded" method for
   returning data from forms.  This format is quite compact, e.g.:

      name=Xavier+Xantico&verdict=Yes&colour=Blue&happy=sad&Utf%F6r=Send

   however, there is no opportunity to label the enclosed data with
   content type, apply a charset, or use other encoding mechanisms.

   Many form-interpreting programs (primarly web browsers) now implement
   and generate multipart/form-data, but an existing application might
   need to optionally support both the application/x-url-encoded format
   as well.

4.5.  Correlating form data with the original form

   This specification provides no specific mechanism by which multipart/
   form-data can be associated with the form that caused it to be
   transmitted.  This separation is intentional; many different forms
   might be used for transmitting the same data.  In practice,
   applications may supply a specific form processing resource (in HTML,
   the ACTION attribute in a FORM tag) for each different form.
   Alternatively, data about the form might be encoded in a "hidden
   field" (a field which is part of the form but which has a fixed value
   to be transmitted back to the form-data processor.)

5.  Security Considerations

   The data format described in this document introduces no new security
   considerations outside of those introduced by the protocols that use
   it and of the component elements.  It is important when interpreting
   content-disposition to not overwrite files in the recipients address
   space inadvertently.

   User applications that request form information from users must be
   careful not to cause a user to send information to the requestor or a
   third party unwillingly or unwittingly.  For example, a form might
   request 'spam' information to be sent to an unintended third party,
   or private information to be sent to someone that the user might not
   actually intend.  While this is primarily an issue for the
   representation and interpretation of forms themselves, rather than
   the data representation of the result of form transmission, the
   transportation of private information must be done in a way that does
   not expose it to unwanted prying.

   With the introduction of form-data that can reasonably send back the
   content of files from user's file space, the possibility that a user
   might be sent an automated script that fills out a form and then
   sends the user's local file to another address arises.  Thus,
   additional caution is required when executing automated scripting
   where form-data might include user's files.

6.  Media type registration for multipart/form-data

       Media Type name:
         multipart
       Media subtype name:
         form-data
           Required parameters:
          none
       Optional parameters:
          none
       Encoding considerations:
          No additional considerations other than as for other
          multipart types.
       Security Considerations
              Applications which receive forms and process them must be
              careful not to supply data back to the requesting form
              processing site that was not intended to be sent by the
              recipient. This is a consideration for any application that
              generates a multipart/form-data.
   
          The multipart/form-data type introduces no new security
          considerations for recipients beyond what might occur with
          any of the enclosed parts.

7.  References

7.1.  Normative References

   [RFC1806]  Troost, R. and S. Dorner, "Communicating Presentation
              Information in Internet Messages: The Content-Disposition
              Header", RFC 1806, June 1995.

   [RFC1867]  Nebel, E. and L. Masinter, "Form-based File Upload in
              HTML", RFC 1867, November 1995.

   [RFC2046]  Freed, N. and N. Borenstein, "Multipurpose Internet Mail
              Extensions (MIME) Part Two: Media Types", RFC 2046,
              November 1996.

   [RFC2047]  Moore, K., "MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
              Part Three: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text",
              RFC 2047, November 1996.

   [RFC2183]  Troost, R., Dorner, S. and K. Moore, "Communicating
              Presentation Information in Internet Messages: The
              Content-Disposition Header Field", RFC 2183, August 1997.

   [RFC2184]  Freed, N. and K. Moore, "MIME Parameter Value and Encoded
              Word Extensions: Character Sets, Languages, and
              Continuations", RFC 2184, August 1997.

   [RFC2231]  Freed, N. and K. Moore, "MIME Parameter Value and Encoded
              Word Extensions: Character Sets, Languages, and
              Continuations", RFC 2231, November 1997.

7.2.  Informative References

   [HTML3.2]  Raggett, D., "HTML 3.2 Reference Specification", World
              Wide Web Consortium Recommendation REC-html32-19970114,
              January 1997, <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-html32-19970114>.

   [HTML4.0]  Raggett, D., Hors, A. and I. Jacobs, "HTML 4.0
              Recommendation", World Wide Web Consortium REC-
              html40-971218, December 1997, <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-
              html40-971218>.

   [RFC2388]  Masinter, L., "Returning Values from Forms:  multipart/
              form-data", RFC 2388, August 1998.

   [html4]    Raggett, D., Hors, A. and I. Jacobs, "HTML 4.0
              Recommendation", World Wide Web Consortium REC-
              html40-971218, December 1997, <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-
              html40-971218>.

Appendix A.  Changes from RFC

   Multiple files submitted as part of a single <input type=file
   multiple> element will result in each file having its own field; the
   "sets of files" feature ("multipart/mixed") in 2388 is not used.

   document _charset_ convention.

   Be more proscriptive about order and duplicates.

Appendix B.  Alternatives

Appendix B.1.  Other data encodings rather than multipart

   Various people have suggested using new mime top-level type
   "aggregate", e.g., aggregate/mixed or a content-transfer-encoding of
   "packet" to express indeterminate-length binary data, rather than
   relying on the multipart-style boundaries.  While this would be
   useful, the "multipart" mechanisms are well established, simple to
   implement on both the sending client and receiving server, and as
   efficient as other methods of dealing with multiple combinations of
   binary data.

   The multipart/form-data encoding has a high overhead and performance
   impact if there are many fields with short values.  However, in
   practice, for the forms in use, for example, in HTML, the average
   overhead is not significant.

Appendix B.2.  Remote files with third-party transfer

   In some scenarios, the user operating the form software might want to
   specify a URL for remote data rather than a local file.  In this
   case, is there a way to allow the browser to send to the client a
   pointer to the external data rather than the entire contents?  This
   capability could be implemented, for example, by having the client
   send to the server data of type "message/external-body" with "access-
   type" set to, say, "uri", and the URL of the remote data in the body
   of the message.

Author's Address

   Larry Masinter
   Adobe
   
   Email: masinter@adobe.com
   URI:   http://larry.masinter.net

